readme.md, before:

# Draw Steel

## What is it?
> Draw Steel is a tabletop RPG designed for games about heroic characters battling monsters in a fantasy setting.

## **How is it different from D&D/Pathfinder?**
If I were to give a 1-sentence answer to **What is D&D?**, it would be:
> D&D is a *medieval fantasy* tabletop RPG about *simulating* an adventurer.

So, the high-level differences are:

1. **Simulating *characters*, not people**. Draw Steel's mechanics are about simulating a movie or book character, rather than a whole person. For example, in D&D, you track your arrows, your torches, your rations, etc. In Draw Steel, equipment is abstracted in **Kits** -- you have a particular *type* of armor and weapons which affect how your character plays in combat, but if, for instance, your character has a bow, you don't need to track how many arrows you have -- it's assumed you brought enough with you. *Is it important how many arrows Legolas has in his quiver? In Draw Steel: no. That's not what the game is about.*
   1. Note: this is a difference in what the system is designed for, not what is *allowed*. We can still roleplay the heroes getting a room at the local inn, but there is no explicit rule stating the heroes need to sleep for 8 hours each night, and what the consequences are if they don't (although they should and it is assumed that they do). There is a system of *Edges* and *Banes* which could apply to something like this when dramatically appropriate. For example, if one of your companions was kidnapped by a band of hobgoblins and you must chase them through the night for two nights in a row, you may find yourself with a **Bane** to your tracking skill on the third day, simulating the exhaustion of your forced march.
2. **No resource attrition (except health).** In D&D, your character starts each day with a full resource pool (spell slots, ki points, etc.) which you drain throughout the adventuring day. In Draw Steel, your character regains their resources at the start of each encounter/round, so you should always have tactical choices to make in combat, and never be in a position where all you have left are cantrips. In fact, as you beat encounters you gain Victories, which increase your hero's power, but this will likely come at the cost of Stamina (essentially, HP). So, the gameplay loop is balancing how many encounters you can push before you need to take a Respite to regain Stamina.
3. **No roll to hit**. There is no roll to hit in combat; you just roll to see how *effective* you are. Higher effect means dealing more damage, imposing stronger debuffs, or pushing enemies further away, but you will always do *something* on your turn.
4. **Familiar tropes with unique twists**. Lastly, Draw Steel is obviously inspired by a lot of the same fantasy as D&D. As such, it has similar ancestries and classes, but with different interpretations. For your first character, I would recommend first reading through the ancestries and classes to get some inspiration, rather than coming up with an idea for a D&D character, then trying to *port* that into this system.

Commit message:

add campaign pitch and book link

readme.md, after:

# Draw Steel 

## [Book 1: Heros](https://1drv.ms/b/c/067cb0a1ce50c175/EV9F1dQwkidIpoHA2woUuJEB_QG1XpRm-6hJN5rJKEIbtA?e=942hcs)

## What is it?
> Draw Steel is a tabletop RPG designed for games about heroic characters battling monsters in a fantasy setting.

## **How is it different from D&D/Pathfinder?**
If I were to give a 1-sentence answer to **What is D&D?**, it would be:
> D&D is a *medieval fantasy* tabletop RPG about *simulating* an adventurer.

So, the high-level differences are:

1. **Simulating *characters*, not people**. Draw Steel's mechanics are about simulating a movie or book character, rather than a whole person. For example, in D&D, you track your arrows, your torches, your rations, etc. In Draw Steel, equipment is abstracted in **Kits** -- you have a particular *type* of armor and weapons which affect how your character plays in combat, but if, for instance, your character has a bow, you don't need to track how many arrows you have -- it's assumed you brought enough with you. *Is it important how many arrows Legolas has in his quiver? In Draw Steel: no. That's not what the game is about.*
   1. Note: this is a difference in what the system is designed for, not what is *allowed*. We can still roleplay the heroes getting a room at the local inn, but there is no explicit rule stating the heroes need to sleep for 8 hours each night, and what the consequences are if they don't (although they should and it is assumed that they do). There is a system of *Edges* and *Banes* which could apply to something like this when dramatically appropriate. For example, if one of your companions was kidnapped by a band of hobgoblins and you must chase them through the night for two nights in a row, you may find yourself with a **Bane** to your tracking skill on the third day, simulating the exhaustion of your forced march.
2. **No resource attrition (except health).** In D&D, your character starts each day with a full resource pool (spell slots, ki points, etc.) which you drain throughout the adventuring day. In Draw Steel, your character regains their resources at the start of each encounter/round, so you should always have tactical choices to make in combat, and never be in a position where all you have left are cantrips. In fact, as you beat encounters you gain Victories, which increase your hero's power, but this will likely come at the cost of Stamina (essentially, HP). So, the gameplay loop is balancing how many encounters you can push before you need to take a Respite to regain Stamina.
3. **No roll to hit**. There is no roll to hit in combat; you just roll to see how *effective* you are. Higher effect means dealing more damage, imposing stronger debuffs, or pushing enemies further away, but you will always do *something* on your turn.
4. **Familiar tropes with unique twists**. Lastly, Draw Steel is obviously inspired by a lot of the same fantasy as D&D. As such, it has similar ancestries and classes, but with different interpretations. For your first character, I would recommend first reading through the ancestries and classes to get some inspiration, rather than coming up with an idea for a D&D character, then trying to *port* that into this system.

---

## Campaign Pitch: Tyranny of the Iron Saint
> For a generation, western Vasloria was ruled by **Good King Omund.** His draconian knights, the **Dragon Phalanx**, protected the weak from the strong, dispensing justice. Under Omund’s rule, order thrived. Roads were safe. People could even walk into the woods unafraid of meeting anything more threatening than a nymph or conversational manticore. Omund died 15 years ago and so died the rule of law. Now the forest claims the towns and roads once held safe. A kingdom that was once connected is now a collection of isolated baronies.
> 
> Now, from across the sea, **Ajax the Invincible** has come with aims to build an empire to rival the ancient Caelians. His wizard **Mortum** was a loyal servant of King Omund. Now, Mortum’s research has unlocked the secrets to powering the **Chryopolis**, Ajax’s flying fotress-city, and the Body Banks that create his mutant **War Dogs**. The **Iron Saint**, as he is now known, has subjugated the lords of Omund’s Land and executed those who would not bend the knee. He has abolished religion and destroys the churches and cathedrals in the cities he conquers.
> 
> The **high elves of the fallen city** pay tribute with ancient artifacts, while the **wode elves of the Orchid Court** retreat to their enchanted forests. The **dwarves of Kal Kalavar** pay tribute in prisoners they abduct from those foolish enough to travel the roads unescorted. The **Hawklords of the High Aeries**, once remote and proud, made their own pact with Ajax to avoid extermination. They now serve as his elite counterinsurgent force. Mounted on their giant hawks, they project Ajax’s power, enforce his law and extend his influence into every corner of the wilderness. Finally, the **Dragon Phalanx** is broken. Ajax placed a high bounty on its warriors’ heads.
> 
> Though their power is greatly diminished, the unconquered baronies of Vasloria still hold land and armies, and if united, could field strong resistance to the Invincible Overlord. Across the sea, **Capital, the Greatest City in This or Any Age,** has avoided Ajax’s eye. For now.
> 
> This campaign is about the group of heroes that stops Ajax’s unstoppable war machine, or the final struggle before his terrible victory.

**Things to consider.** Your heroes will be most engaged with this content if they have at least one of these attributes:

1. **They Ajax specifically.** For obvious reasons.
2. **They are heroic and oppose tyranny, in general.** Ajax’s war is causing the breakdown of justice across the land. Those who support the rule of law (as opposed to “might makes right”) will find themselves at odds with Ajax’s campaign, even if they have no connection to him personally.
3. **They are from Vasloria.** The rumor that Ajax aims to conquer all of Vasloria is well-known. Anyone with the power to protect themselves and their homeland will have motivation to participate in the adventure.

*This is neither an exhausted list, nor required! Just some broad suggestions that I hope will be helpful.*
